---
layout: post
title:  "First Hack Part 1 (Installing The Virtual Network)"
date:   2018-03-28 14:56:03 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

So you want to become a hacker? Want to be like one of those guys on TV who throws code into a terminal window and gets full control of some system remotely? Would you like to learn the general process? We are going to break into a WindowsXP computer. You might be thinking "hold on a minute, I want to break into something more modern."

More often than not cyber attackers don't have the luxury of full control over one's computer. We know for a fact WindowsXP is exploitable because they no longer have support for it. But fear not, the general process will work for more up to date systems as well provided they are not patched or properly configured. The idea of being able to "remote into a system" involves a three-step process.

<br>-Scanning the remote network for active target computers
<br>-scanning them for vulnerabilities
<br>-exploiting them with a process called "remote code execution."

More often than not, these type of attacks are possible if and only if the target user either doesn't update their software or fails to properly configure some service that allows an attacker to remotely access their entire system. There are also 0-day exploits but we will stick to what we realistically will have access to. I'm going to assume you are using a computer running Windows. We will need to install virtual machines, which is basically a virtual computer inside your computer. We are going to do this with VirtualBox. Once we install virtualbox we will install the following.

<br>-Windows XP
<br>-Virtual Box Guest Additions for Windows XP (any service pack)
<br>-Kali Linux
<br>-Virtual Box Guest Additions for Kali Linux

I'm not going to go through the install process. There are dozens of tutorials out there for just that. When installing the following, there are a few things we are going to do differently. Instead, I'm going to leave references that you can follow, or you can just YouTube it. Either way.

<b>Installing Kali Linux In VirtualBox</b>
[BlackmoreOps Security Blog - Install Kali Linux (Unofficial)][Kali-Install]
<b>Installing Windows XP In Virtualbox</b>
[TomsHardware - Install Windows XP (WinXP Support Ended)][WinXP-Install]

Now that everything is set up, let's look at what we need to do once we install the virtual network.

<b>Installing WindowsXP</b>

If you manage to acquire a copy of Windows XP. There are three things we will do.

<br>-Disable the firewall
<br>-Disable updates
<br>-Configure a Bridged network adapter
<br>-Ensure the Windows XP system is vulnerable

<b>Disable Windows Firewall</b>
[Microsoft Support - Disable the Firewall][Microsoft-Support-Firewall]

Start > Run > wscui.cpl

Click "General" tab

Make sure the firewall is turned "off"

<b>Disable Updates</b>
<br>[WikiHow (WinXP Support Ended) - Disable Automatic Updates][Wikihow-Disable-Updates]

Start > Run > wscui.cpl

Check "Turn Off Automatic Updates"

<b>Configure VirtualBox Bridge Adapter</b>

If you followed any tutorial, odds are they had you make NAT adapter. You will not be using this because the two virtual machines will not be able to communicate. In order to fix this, we need to install a Bridge Adapter.

Right click the Kali VirtualMachine > Settings

Click "Network" on the lefthand sidebar

Change the "Attached To:" dropdown to Bridged Adapter

Change the "Name:" dropdown to the name of your network adapter. If you do not know the name, then it's usually the first option.

<b>Ensure the WindowsXP system is vulnurable</b>

First, we check to make sure no updates installed

Start > Run > Control Pannel > Add Remove Programs

Check "Show Updates" at the top

Ensure that no updates have been installed. If they did, then click the item, then click the "Remove" button.

Next we ensure NetBios is enabled.

Start > Run > Control Pannel > Network Connections

Right click on the adapter > properties

Click "Internet Protocol" in the list

Click the "Properties" button

Click the "Advanced" button

Click the WINS tab

Check "Enable NetBios Over TCP/IP"

<br>[Part 2 (Searching for Targets and their Weaknesses)][part-2]
<br>[Part 3 (Exploiting The Vulnurability)][part-3]

[part-2]: MS08_067_Part_2.html
[part-3]: MS08_067_Part_3.html
[Kali-Install]: https://www.blackmoreops.com/2014/04/08/detailed-guide-installing-kali-linux-on-virtualbox/
[WinXP-Install]: http://www.tomshardware.com/faq/id-1853121/set-virtual-windows-machine-virtualbox.html
[Microsoft-Support-Firewall]: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/875356/how-to-configure-the-windows-firewall-feature-in-windows-xp-service-pa
[Wikihow-Disable-Updates]: https://www.wikihow.com/Turn-Off-Microsoft-Updates-in-Windows-XP